Hunger Games Analysis
Mike Gloudemans


Logic:
The logic of my algorithm is incredibly simple: slack every time.


Game Theory Analysis:


Concerning my general strategy:

My net "payout" is 0 if we both hunt, 1 if I slack and my opponent hunts,
-3 if I hunt and my opponent slacks, or -2 if we both slack. Thus, no matter what my opponent
chooses to do, whenever I choose hunt I can expect a net "payout" that is 1 food lower than
what I would have gotten if I chose to slack. Furthermore, if I choose to slack there is a
(slight) additional advantage I am denying my opponent. Although this benefit is less important
because it only affects one other player in any given contest, it becomes more notable as the 
number of opponents in the competition increases (if I actually make it that far, of course).

Based on this analysis alone, it appears that the best strategy is to slack every time.
However, if by maintaining my reputation at a high level, I could entice my opponents to hunt
with me at a higher frequency, it might pay off to increase my reputation to a non-zero level.
This strategy to raise my reputation would work only if every 3 times I hunt, I can that guarantee
AT LEAST one person will hunt against me that would have slacked had I possessed a lower reputation.

Taking only the game theory analysis into account, there is no reason why my opponent is better
off choosing to hunt against me if my reputation is 0.5 as opposed to a flat 0, since my opponent 
still receives 1 less food in total by hunting than by slacking. Of course, it's possible that a
sense of fairness might discourage people from hunting against me if they see that my reputation
is low.

Because of this, I've concluded that the marginal benefits of hunting simply aren't great enough
to make it worth the additional 1 food that I lose every time I choose to hunt. This is a risky
assumption to make, as it's quite possible that my opponent with punish me severely for my 0
reputation. However, if my opponents behave in a less predictable manner, this strategy might
actually do quite well by preventing me from unnecessarily spending food on hunting.



Concerning (lack of) cooperation for the good of the group:

A more cooperative approach might attempt to do my "fair share" of hunting so that the
group can receive food bonuses in the long term. However, my goal was simply to outlast
the other players rather than to survive for the entire competition, so from this perspective
I don't receive any utility from extra 2 pieces of food if every other player receives the same
bonus.

I realize that this strategy could backfire if other players decide to punish me for my
non-cooperativity.

Admittedly, my algorithm would be far better if I at least included a backup plan for dealing with
the case in which other players decide to punish me for being a slacker. Such an algorithm might
hunt for a little while every so often to raise my reputation to a non-zero level. However, in true
slacker spirit, I unfortunately never got around to planning such an algorithm. Actually, I did give 
some thought into algorithms that might attempt to figure out the other players' hunting patterns, 
but ultimately I decided that most of my ideas would involve making too many assumptions about the other
players' strategies prior to starting the game, and because of this I opted for my slacker strategy,
which seems logically sound, although unfortunately also a lot less interesting!