Hunger Games Analysis
Mike Gloudemans

8/18/2013

Algorithm: Ramblin' Man


Game Theory Analysis:

My net "payout" is 0 if we both hunt, 1 if I slack and my opponent hunts,
-3 if I hunt and my opponent slacks, or -2 if we both slack. Thus, no matter what my opponent
chooses to do, whenever I choose to hunt I can expect a net "payout" that is 1 food lower than
what I would have gotten if I chose to slack. Furthermore, if I choose to slack there is a
(slight) additional advantage I am denying my opponent. Although this benefit is less important
because it only affects one other player in any given contest, it becomes more notable as the 
number of opponents in the competition increases (if I actually make it that far, of course).

Based on this analysis alone, it initially appears that the best strategy is to slack every time.
However, if by maintaining my reputation at a high level, I could entice my opponents to hunt
with me at a higher frequency, it might pay off to increase my reputation to a non-zero level.
This strategy to raise my reputation would work only if every 3 times I hunt, I can expect that
AT LEAST one person will hunt against me that would have slacked had I possessed a lower reputation.

Taking only my opponents' results into account, there is no reason why my opponent is better
off choosing to hunt against me if my reputation is 0.5 as opposed to a flat 0, since my opponent 
still receives 1 less food in total by hunting than by slacking. However, my opponent also will need to
consider whether I myself will be better off if he or she hunts against me. The competitive nature of
this game makes it so that people will need to punish slackers by hunting against them less frequently.
Otherwise, the biggest slackers would surely win!

Thus, the big question to answer is whether the extra costs I incur from hunting are offset by the increased
percentage of my opponents who will hunt against me due to my higher reputation. Of course, this is impossible 
to answer without knowing how the other players behave; thus, it will be necessary to observe the others' 
behavior for a while in order to figure out just how much it pays off to be a hunter.



Logic/Strategy:

My algorithm "Ramblin Man" is a dynamic strategy which alternates between hunting against everyone and slacking 
against everyone (as appropriate) in an attempt to bring my reputation towards an optimal reputation. The algorithm
will "walk" for a while in the direction of increasing reputation until this is no longer beneficial, and then 
will reverse directions and walk in the direction of decreasing reputation. The algorithm will continuously
repeat this process, turning itself around whenever it determines that it's going in the wrong direction.

The rationale behind this strategy is that my reputation is the clearest indicator to other players of
how I am likely to behave in a certain round. It is the only obvious variable that distinguishes me from
other players. Thus, the only way that I can truly influence other players' likelihood of choosing to hunt
against me is by modifying my reputation.

My algorithm attempts to determine the optimal reputation using an economic analysis.
After every 14 rounds, I compare the marginal costs of maintaining a higher reputation with the
marginal benefits of convincing more of my opponents to hunt against me. If, by increasing my reputation
by one percent, I can increase the percentage of opponents that hunt against me by a third of a percent,
then this is an indicator that it's worthwhile to move my reputation in the positive direction. If not, I'll
be better off allowing my reputation to decrease. (See Game Theory analysis above.)

Admittedly, since there might be a large amount of randomness in my opponents' behavior, it is inevitable
that I will sometimes misjudge whether I should increase or decrease my reputation to bring 
it closer to the optimal reputation. However, since I'll be performing this judgment every 14 rounds,
as long as I judge correctly on more than 50% of my analyses, I'll eventually approach the optimal
reputation (assuming that there actually is such a thing is an "optimal" reputation!)

One potential danger that my strategy faces is falling into a local optimum reputation that actually
is far from the true global optimum. This could potentially be devastating to my performance!
Unfortunately, I never got around to addressing such a problem, so we'll just have to see how things go.

This algorithm has an advantage in is its dynamic approach. It is possible that there exists one optimal 
reputation to hold throughout the entire game; however, it seems more likely that the optimal reputation will
vary as the game progresses. Therefore, my algorithm continuously explores and analyzes the effects of a
slight increase or a slight decrease in reputation. Hopefully over a very large number of rounds, this will
allow my algorithm to reach a reputation that is near the optimal reputation at any given time.



